README.md, before:

# Content Cache Operator

A Juju charm deploying and managing a content cache.

## Overview

A content-caching service, built on top of [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/)
that can be simply configured to cache any http or https web site. Offers a
configurable cache storage size, and cache validity duration.

The content-cache service was developed to provide front-end caching for
services run by Canonical's IS team, and to reduce the need for third-party
CDNs by providing high-bandwidth access to web sites via this caching front-end.
Currently used for a number of services including [the Snap Store](https://snapcraft.io/store),
the majority of Canonical's web properties including [ubuntu.com](https://ubuntu.com) and
[canonical.com](https://canonical.com), and [Ubuntu Extended Security Maintenance](https://ubuntu.com/security/esm).

This Kubernetes-based version is built using the same approach, and can be
used as a front-end caching service in a situation where your Kubernetes
cluster and its ingress controllers have a fast connection to the Internet.

## Usage

For details on using Kubernetes with Juju [see here](https://juju.is/docs/kubernetes), and for
details on using Juju with MicroK8s for easy local testing [see here](https://juju.is/docs/microk8s-cloud).

To deploy this charm into a k8s model, with sample configuration set up to
cache `archive.ubuntu.com`:

    juju deploy cs:~content-cache-charmers/content-cache-k8s \
        --config site=archive.ubuntu.com \
        --config backend=http://archive.ubuntu.com:80 \
        --config juju-external-hostname=archive.ubuntu.com
    juju expose content-cache

And then you can test the deployment with:

    # Set this to to the "Address" value in the "App" section of `juju status`
    APP_IP=10.152.183.117

First let's request a resource with headers that will allow us to cache (with
sample output):

    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Contents-i386.gz -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: MISS from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)
    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Contents-i386.gz -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: HIT from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)

And now let's request a resource with headers telling us not to cache:

    # Verify cache control headers
    curl -v http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Release 2>&1 | grep 'Cache-Control'
    #   output: < Cache-Control: max-age=0, proxy-revalidate
    # And now perform the requests through the content-caching service.
    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Release -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: MISS from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)
    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Release -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: MISS from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)

---

For more details, [see here](https://charmhub.io/content-cache)

Commit message:

Clarify wording around tuning options

README.md, after:

# Content Cache Operator

A Juju charm deploying and managing a content cache.

## Overview

A content-caching service, built on top of [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/)
configurable to cache any http or https web site. Tuning options include
cache storage size, maximum request size to cache and cache validity duration.

The content-cache service was developed to provide front-end caching for
services run by Canonical's IS team, and to reduce the need for third-party
CDNs by providing high-bandwidth access to web sites via this caching front-end.
Currently used for a number of services including [the Snap Store](https://snapcraft.io/store),
the majority of Canonical's web properties including [ubuntu.com](https://ubuntu.com) and
[canonical.com](https://canonical.com), and [Ubuntu Extended Security Maintenance](https://ubuntu.com/security/esm).

This Kubernetes-based version is built using the same approach, and can be
used as a front-end caching service in a situation where your Kubernetes
cluster and its ingress controllers have a fast connection to the Internet.

## Usage

For details on using Kubernetes with Juju [see here](https://juju.is/docs/kubernetes), and for
details on using Juju with MicroK8s for easy local testing [see here](https://juju.is/docs/microk8s-cloud).

To deploy this charm into a k8s model, with sample configuration set up to
cache `archive.ubuntu.com`:

    juju deploy cs:~content-cache-charmers/content-cache-k8s \
        --config site=archive.ubuntu.com \
        --config backend=http://archive.ubuntu.com:80 \
        --config juju-external-hostname=archive.ubuntu.com
    juju expose content-cache

And then you can test the deployment with:

    # Set this to to the "Address" value in the "App" section of `juju status`
    APP_IP=10.152.183.117

First let's request a resource with headers that will allow us to cache (with
sample output):

    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Contents-i386.gz -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: MISS from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)
    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Contents-i386.gz -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: HIT from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)

And now let's request a resource with headers telling us not to cache:

    # Verify cache control headers
    curl -v http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Release 2>&1 | grep 'Cache-Control'
    #   output: < Cache-Control: max-age=0, proxy-revalidate
    # And now perform the requests through the content-caching service.
    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Release -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: MISS from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)
    curl -v --resolve archive.ubuntu.com:80:${APP_IP} http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/focal/Release -o /dev/null 2>&1 | grep 'X-Cache-Status'
    # < X-Cache-Status: MISS from juju-87625f-hloeung-13 (content-cache-56bbcd79d6-h8dk2)

---

For more details, [see here](https://charmhub.io/content-cache)
